#Pyhon basics

Oscar Eduardo Fuentes
I learned to program from scratch with the fastest growing language on the planet: Python. I discovered what an algorithm is and how to build one. I mastered variables, functions, data structures, conditionals and loops.

Create data structures
Create loops
I learned programming tools
I learned basic Python concepts
Programs developed with Python:
Calculator
Guessing game
Dictionaries
Multiplication tables
Password generator
Loops
Currency converters
Conditionals
Functions
Palindrome
Primality test
Path
Facundo García Martoni - Professor at the House of Platzi
Python Expert, Frontend and Backend Engineer, Powerlifter
Facundo García Martoni, is a developer passionate about various fields of the technology industry: frontend, backend, data science, iot (internet of things), interactive design, among others. argentinean, born in the province of tucumán. he works as a technical coach at platzi master, and teaches several courses on the platform, such as the basic python course, the fundamentals of web scraping with python and xpath course, and the scrapy course.

His first projects were modifications of the game Grand Theft Auto San Andreas in 2011, specifically the so-called Terror mod, which added new characters to the game and a new story in which the protagonist had to kill different monsters from the world of terror, taken from urban legends, creepypastas, movies and video games. This "mod" reached 4 million downloads in its best years, and was shown in hundreds of YouTube videos at the time. This was Facundo's first contact with programming, due to the internal mechanics of the game, he learned the C language, in which later, during college, he would end up deepening his knowledge.

After these projects, before fully entering the world of development, Facundo participated in several debate and public speaking competitions in his country, such as Model United Nations, of which he was captain of the national champion team in 2017. The Model United Nations is a simulation in which different teams represent different countries and non-profit organizations on the planet, and debate to come up with different resolutions of interest for a given year. In parallel, he was also a frequent participant in the Math Olympiads, in which he competed for several years, also reaching the national level.

At the beginning of 2018, he started his career in Information Systems Engineering at the National Technological University. During this moment of his life, he joins different competitive programming competitions, such as the Argentine Programming Tournament and various meetings held throughout the year, to test the skill and speed in the creation of algorithms.

However, after a deep analysis, both personal and market, he leaves the institution to embark on an adventure in search of better and more efficient ways to meet the digital services. He delves into computer and wireless network security, the creation of mobile applications and programming languages such as Java, Dart and JavaScript. On that journey, after experimenting with various learning resources, he finds Platzi, where he becomes an advantaged learner after 8 months of study.

In October 2019, after completing a couple of runs on the platform, he is hired as an Associate in Platzi's Quality Assurance team, a position where he was in charge for 6 months of ensuring the quality of the pre-launch courses, answering questions from students in the community and forum. In early 2020, when the Platzi Master project begins, Platzi's elite training program for software engineering professionals, Facundo becomes Technical Coach, a job in which he creates exclusive content for students and answers questions in individual tutorials. During the same year, he also creates courses on the Python language for the platform.

Facundo is a second lieutenant in the Argentine Army, where he learned to survive in adverse situations, to get water, fire and shelter. He is passionate about self-defense, which is why he practices Karate. In addition, on the sports side, a great hobby is weightlifting and powerlifting, as well as street workout and calisthenics. He likes to play chess from time to time and assemble Rubik's cubes as fast as possible. Today he is focused on strengthening his Data Science skills to apply them in impactful projects to improve his students' learning, and in the near future create a company.